Question 1.1 Do the data in the ad support the claim that burglars are more likely to go to work during the time between Memorial Day to Labor Day? Please explain your answer. (5 points)

No, the data in the ad does not support the claim that burglaries are more likely to happen over the range between Memorial Day to Labor Day. We can intuit this as the quote states "over 25% of home burglaries occur between Memorial Day to Labor Day". Typically, this range spans 99 days, therefore this range spans 27% of the year ( 99 / 365 ~= 0.271 ). In fact, 25% is _less than_ 27%, suggesting that there are _fewer_ burglaries within this range over the course of a single year.

Question 5.1 The data were gathered by the following procedure, reported in the study. "Between January and June 1998, parents of children aged 2-16 years [...] that were seen as outpatients in a university pediatric ophthalmology clinic completed a questionnaire on the child's light exposure both at present and before the age of 2 years." Was this study observational, or was it a controlled experiment? Explain. (5 Points)

The study was observational. This study was conducted based upon the arbitrary populace of outpatients. The study did not have the methodology necessary to control whom were under examination i.e., the population of children between 2 and 16 that were not part of the sample of outpatients.

Question 5.2. The study found that of the children who slept with a room light on before the age of 2, 55% were myopic. Of the children who slept with a night light on before the age of 2, 34% were myopic. Of the children who slept in the dark before the age of 2, 10% were myopic. The study concluded the following: "The prevalence of myopia [...] during childhood was strongly associated with ambient light exposure during sleep at night in the first two years after birth."

Do the data support this statement? Why or why not? You may interpret "strongly" in any reasonable qualitative way. (5 Points)

Yes, the data supports the statement. There is a significant difference relative to the children who slept in the dark before the age or 2: 55% and 34% are both significantly greater than 10%.

Question 5.3. On May 13, 1999, CNN reported the results of this study under the headline, "Night light may lead to nearsightedness." Does the conclusion of the study claim that night light causes nearsightedness? (5 Points)

Maybe. CNN's claim does not specifically refer to the first 2 years of life. There may be other factors that contribute to the incident of nearsightedness in the coming years of life. Yet being an OpEd, we would expect the reader to understand that this CNN report generalizes the whole study thus allowing ambiguity.

Perhaps, lay persons would not observe the distinction an OpEd and a scientific study and results.

Question 5.4. The final paragraph of the CNN report said that "several eye specialists" had pointed out that the study should have accounted for heredity.

Myopia is passed down from parents to children. Myopic parents are more likely to have myopic children, and may also be more likely to leave lights on habitually (since the parents have poor vision). In what way does the knowledge of this possible genetic link affect how we interpret the data from the study? Explain. (5 Points)

The CNN report was not responsible for the parameters of the study. Yes, this seems like a meaningful suggestion, but it should not affect the interpretation of the study in terms of correlation.
